# Frequently Asked Questions

### Q: What is a clone?

A clone is any piece of code that bears striking similarities to another. They're often but not always created by copy/pasting code.

### Q: Why care about clones anyways? If the code is working, linted, and tested, what's the harm?

A: First, any bug that occurs in a piece of code probably occurs in ALL its clones. That means that when fixing bugs it can be more difficult to identify all the places a change needs to occur. If a clone doesnt get fixed, old bugs can linger around and occur only for whatever weird inputs use one clone over another.

More generally, clones and copy/pasted code are a kind of development debt, the same as poor documentation or testing. Repetitive code makes it harder to approach a project and more difficult to maintain it.

Lastly, being aware of clones can produce design insights while coding. Every clone is a piece of code that was important enough to get used in a least two different contexts. Often, that means it's a good place to design a general solution.

### Q: I think I might have clones in my code, but I might have changed a bunch of parameters and added a couple lines. Won't `orphanblack` miss these clones?

A: Actually, `orphanblack` will still find similar segments of code even when they're modified like this! Insead of looking at the raw files, `orphanblack` parses your code and looks for similar regions of the AST tree. It's even smart enough to recognise when the same change has occured in multiple places in code (e.g. a variable has been renamed) and avoid overpenalizing.

### Q: Are all clones bad?

A: No. Sometimes a cloned piece of code is really the best way to solve a problem. Clones are auto-generated somewhere in your build process. Plugins and other abstraction barriers may also create clones. These clones are pretty benign, but sometimes still interesting from a design perspective.

### Q: I have a bunch of autogenerated code. Can I restrict which files / classes / functions `orphanblack` looks at?

A: Yes! Check out file manifests and AST manifests. Once you get your manifests fine tuned for a particular project, consider adding them to `.orphanblackrc` configuration files.

### Q: Does a clean bill of health ensure that there's no code repetition / development debt in my project?

A: No. Clone detection isn't magic. `orphanblack` might miss things, and it may produce false positives. Even when it works correctly, not all clones are uniformly bad, and they certianly aren't the only kind of development debt that repetitive code and copy-pasting can incur.

### Q: Can I integrate `orphanblack` into my build / integration / lint / coding process?

A: Absolutely! If the CLI doesn't work, check out the API. It's easy to automate scans and process reports into any format you need. Note that `orphanblack` doesn't strictly find errors or bugs. You should probably treat the presence of clones a lot like you'd treat poor formatting -- it shouldn't affect functionality, but it probably should raise flags during code review.