# `orphanblack`

*Static Analysis for Software Clone Detection*

Software Clones occur when multiple pieces of code bear striking similarities to each other. Often generated by copy-pasting code before making only superficial modifications, they are a type of development debt that can contribute a sprawling codebase that is difficult to debug and maintain.

Fixing clones is often simple as simple as refactoring commanalities into a single function or method. Where clones exist, there's almost always an opportunity to improve the design of software by making explicit the shared relationships between previously disparate segments of the codebase.

As a result, it's valuble to at least be aware of what clones exist in your software and where they are. Sadly, existing linters and analysis tools generally do not address clone detection, in part because it involves examining multiple files at once, and in part because the exact definition of a clone is up for debate. Some clone detection packages exist (e.g. Asta, clonedigger), but they are generally outdated, simplistic, unmaintained, or specific to a proprietary IDE.

`orphanblack` aims to fill this gap in linting software by providing a detector that is expandable while being simple enough to comprehend and integrate in a weekend.

## Code Genealogy (How `orphanblack` Came To Be)
`orphanblack` is a direct code descendant of a [2008 package called `clonedigger`](http://clonedigger.sourceforge.net). I first stumbled on `clonedigger` in 2012 when examining other static analysis tools for python like pep8 and pyflakes, and really liked the concept. Sadly, I found the original code unusable for my purposes. I adapted the code several times in the intervening years, but always with limited success because of the convoluted inner workings of the package.

In the early summer of 2015, I switched to a new computer, inadvertantly deleting many of my modifications. I decided to bite the bullet and attempt a total refactor into something I found more palatable. I also wanted to create something that could play nicely with Sublime Text; a tool that could automatically run on every project -- python or otherwise -- I worked on. `orphanblack`, nicknamed after the clone-based BBC America series, is the result of my progress towards those goals.

The CLI and API are both inspired by [the wonderful dynamic analysis tool `coverage.py`](http://nedbatchelder.com/code/coverage), though there is no direct code relationship.

Because `clonedigger` is distributed under GPL3, I am forced to also use GPL3 in place of the MIT or LGPL3 liscences which I personally prefer. I do not consider use of the `orphanblack` API to constitute incorporation and therefore to the greatest degree possible under the law I wish to allow the use of the API for even commercial purposes.